Ch-01 What do we mean when we say cabal? (#26)
haskell/cabal-userguide: src/preamble/01_what_do_we_mean_when_we_say_cabal.md

# What do we mean when we say cabal?

Cabal is an umbrella term that can refer to either cabal-the-spec (.cabal
files), cabal-the-library (code that understands .cabal files), or

> cabal-the-tool (the cabal-install package which provides the cabal executable).

Reviewer: Perhaps use quotations rather than hyphens here: "cabal the specification file", "cabal the haskell library", and "cabal the cli tool". I think additional specificity here will pay dividends.

Author: Yeah, this part should be absolutely clear.

Reviewer: @srirajshukla were you going to change the quoted phrases to be more descriptive?

## tl;dr

1. [cabal-install](#cabalInstall) is the command line utility to help configure,
   compile and install Haskell libraries and programs.

> 2. [The Cabal build system](#cabailBuildSystem), a specification for defining

Reviewer: Typo here.
```suggestion
2. [The Cabal build system](#cabalBuildSystem), a specification for defining
```

Reviewer: Is the cabal build system a specification? I think you should also be clear that you are talking about what it commonly referred to as `Cabal` (upper case c) here. I think you are 100% right that it is a library that is used by other haskell packages. It might be worth mentioning that `Cabal` can take a haskell dependency graph (of external and internal modules) and use GHC to build it.

Author: I'll change Cabal build to CABAL build. I can mention "Cabal can take a haskell dependency graph (of external and internal modules) and use GHC to build it." in the details section?

Author: @JonathanLorimer  what would be better? adding it here in tldr section or in the more details section?

Reviewer: @srirajshukla I am okay with you mentioning the dependency graph bit in the details section. But I still think you need to be careful about using the word `specification`. It could be confused with the `.cabal` file being a specification for your haskell package. Also I don't think `Cabal` is really a specification, it is really just a library and a build system.

   Haskell packages, together with a library for performing builds. This build

>    system is used by cabal-install and other package managers (stack for eg).

Reviewer: I would just write this sentence out.
```suggestion
   system is used by cabal-install and other package managers, stack for example.
```

>    For eg: parsing .cabal files (among others).

Reviewer: Can you expand on this?

Author: I was thinking I'd just add one or two-line summaries here. I'll add some more details here then!

Reviewer: @srirajshukla I am fine with this tl;dr section being small. But I think if you introduce a concept (like parsing a .cabal file) you need to fully flesh it out, otherwise just don't mention it.

3. [.cabal file](#cabalFile) This is the format that specifies the content of

>    Haskell packages.

Reviewer: I think this could be fleshed out more as well. A `.cabal` file specifies a Haskell package with via some top level metadata about the package and build specific information (exposed modules, external dependencies, language extensions, compiler options) about the components that comprise the package.

> ## The .cabal file<a name="cabalFile"></a>

Reviewer: do you need the `<a></a>` tag here? I thought mdbook handled this linking for you. You can test locally using `mdbook serve`

Author: I am using the <a></a> tags for inline linking. Afaik mdbook handles linking to other files. If there is any other way for linking to topic headers let me know!

Reviewer: mdbook provides these anchor tags for you automatically. You can test what they are by removing your anchor tags, then from the nix shell run `mdbook serve`, navigate to `localhost:3000` and go to the header you want to find the anchor for, click on it and you will see the anchor behind a hashtag in the url.

For example, when I do this for `## The .cabal file` I get this url `http://localhost:3000/preamble/01_what_do_we_mean_when_we_say_cabal.html#the-cabal-file`

Therefore you could just reference `#the-cabal-file` from the tl;dr section!

Reviewer: I think the general rule is that all symbols are stripped and whitespace is replace with hyphens.

Author: I didn't know it could be done this way.

The .cabal file contains information that drives the compilation and building of
Haskell packages. This is the format that specifies the content of Haskell

> packages. It is a text-based, key-value format, that is divided into subsections

Reviewer: I think you can get rid of this filler sentence
```suggestion
Haskell packages. It is a text-based, key-value format, that is divided into subsections
```

called stanzas. Each section consists of a number of property descriptions in

> the form of field/value pairs, with a syntax roughly like mail message headers.

Reviewer: I think you can remove "in the form of field/value pairs" since you mentioned the `key-value` format above.

I am not sure what you mean by "like mail message headers"

Author: like mail message header is about email headers, I found the reference in some documentation that I was going through. I think I can remove this whole line. It is not adding anything of much value here.

> It is denoted with a file with the .cabal extension.

Reviewer: You can get rid of this sentence since you are referring to `.cabal` files throughout this section.

This file should contain a number global property descriptions and several
sections. The package properties describe the package as a whole, such as name,
license, author, etc. Optionally, a number of configuration flags can be
declared. These can be used to enable or disable certain features of a package.
The (optional) library section specifies the library properties and relevant
build information. Following is an arbitrary number of executable sections which

> describe an executable program and relevant build information.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph needs to be tweaked. We need to be very careful about being exceedingly clear here. This is one of the more complicated aspects of cabal.

My suggestions are:
- Start with a sentence explaining what package properties are (perhaps leave out the concept of being "global" they are really just top level fields). Make sure to explain that package properties are metadata about the package that will be built as a result of calling `cabal build`, usually the `.cabal` file lives at the root directory that contains the haskell source code corresponding to the package.
- Explain that the optional component stanzas (library, executable, test-suite, and benchmark) are things called components. Perhaps link to another section of the user guide that covers them in more detail.
- If you are going to mention more specific fields like configuration flags, then make sure to be very clear about what they can do (i.e. enable language extensions, or apply flags to ghc)

Author: I'll rewrite this paragraph.

Author: @JonathanLorimer 
I've rewritten this para as: 

The .cabal file contains information that drives the compilation and building of
Haskell packages. Usually the .cabal file lives at the root directory that
contains the haskell source code corresponding to the package. Usually this file
is named as `project-name.cabal`. It is a text-based, key-value format, that is
divided into subsections called stanzas. Each section consists of a number of
property descriptions.

The package properties describe the package as a whole, such as name, license,
author, dependenices, etc. It also contains optional information about optional
components such as
[library properties](../new_to_cabal/06_first_cabal_library.md),
[executables](../new_to_cabal/07_first_cabal_executable.md),
[test-suite](../leveling_up/02_first_cabal_test-suite.md),
[benchmark](src/leveling_up/03_first_cabal_benchmark.md). These components are
also called stanzas.

One of the purposes of Cabal is to make it easier to build a package with
different Haskell implementations. So it provides abstractions of features
present in different Haskell implementations and wherever possible it is best to
take advantage of these to increase portability. For example one of the pieces
of information an author can put in the package’s .cabal file is what language
extensions the code uses. This is far preferable to specifying flags for a
specific compiler as it allows Cabal to pick the right flags for the Haskell
implementation that the user picks. It also allows Cabal to figure out if the
language extension is even supported by the Haskell implementation that the user
picks. Where compiler-specific options are needed however, there is an “escape
hatch” available. The developer can specify implementation-specific options and
more generally there is a configuration mechanism to customise many aspects of
how a package is built depending on the Haskell implementation, the Operating
system, computer architecture and user-specified configuration flags.

Is the last para fine, or should I reduce it?

> ## The CABAL library <a name="cabalBuildSystem"></a>

Reviewer: Same thing about the `<a></a>` tag.

CABAL stands for Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries.
This is the library that provides functionality that allows the information in
the .cabal files to be put to use. Without the Cabal library, the Cabal package
format is just that, a text file. The Cabal library contains the implementations
that allow for the parsing and operations based on the content of a .cabal file.

> Cabal the library by convention is written with a Capitalization case.

Reviewer: Great paragraph. Gets the message across nicely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CABAL stands for Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries.
This is the library that provides functionality that allows the information in
the .cabal files to be put to use. Without the Cabal library, the Cabal package
format is just that, a text file. The Cabal library contains the implementations
that allow for the parsing and operations based on the content of a .cabal file.
Cabal the library by convention is written with Capitalization case.
```
just one small grammatical correction.

## The binary cabal-install (cli tool)<a name="cabalInstall"></a>

> The cabal command line tool helps in working with Cabal packages. It (cabal
> lowercase) or more accurately `cabal-install` is the command-line tool that
> provides a user interface for dealing with Haskell packages. cabal-install makes
> use of Cabal the library to do its job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cabal binary or more accurately `cabal-install` is the command-line tool that
provides a user interface for dealing with Haskell packages. cabal-install makes
use of Cabal the library to do its job.
```

I don't think the first sentence is necessary. Here is a suggested change.

> cabal-install is a frontends to CABAL. It makes it possible to build Haskell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cabal-install is a frontend to Cabal. It makes it possible to build Haskell
```

projects whose sets of dependencies might conflict with each other within the

> confines of a single system. When cabal-install is asked to build a project, by

Reviewer: Perhaps you could mention something about version ranges here? https://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developing-packages.html#modules-imported-from-other-packages

You don't need to go into very much detail, but it might be helpful for the user to understand that they specify a range of acceptable versions and cabal sets out to solve a working package set within those ranges.

Author: I'll add a bit about it here.

Author: @JonathanLorimer  I've added this much: 
"Packages provide a constraint on the version of
various libraries (version range) that will work with their package."

Is this enough?

Reviewer: Yeah that is fine, maybe add something like "Packages provide a constraint on the version of
various libraries (using cabal's version bounds syntax) that will work with their package."

default it looks at the dependencies specified in its .cabal file and uses a
dependency solver to figure out a set of packages and package versions that

> satisfy it. This set of package is drawn from all package and all versions from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
satisfy it. This set of packages is drawn from all package and all versions from
```

Hackage as a whole. The chosen versions of the dependenices will be installed
and indexed in a database in the cabal directory.

> Version conflicts between dependencies are avoided by indexing the installed
> packages according to their version and other relevent configuration options.
> This allows different projects to retrieve the dependecy versions they need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conflicts between dependencies are avoided by indexing the installed
packages according to their version and other relevant configuration options.
This allows different projects to retrieve the dependency versions they need.
```

    stack is also a command-line tool that depends on the Cabal Library,
    and hence also consumes the information specified in Cabal Package format

>     found in the .cabal files.

Reviewer: Is the indentation here intended?

Author: Not really.

# References

> 1. [CABAL hackage page](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/Cabal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Cabal hackage page](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/Cabal)
```

# What do we mean when we say cabal?

Cabal is an umbrella term that can refer to either "cabal the spec" (.cabal
files), "cabal the library" (code that understands .cabal files), or "cabal the
tool" (the cabal-install package which provides the cabal executable).

## tl;dr

1. [.cabal file](#the-cabal-file) This is the file that specifies the content of
   Haskell packages. The types of information that can be provided via the
   bespoke file format are: top level metadata about the package, and build
   specific information (exposed modules, external dependencies, language
   extensions, compiler options) about the components that comprise the package.

2. [The Cabal build system](#the-cabal-library) is a library that is used for
   creating packages and building their contents. This build system is used by
   cabal-install and other package managers, stack for example.

3. [cabal-install](#the-binary-cabal-install-cli-tool) is the command line
   utility to help configure, compile and install Haskell libraries and
   programs.

## The .cabal file

> The .cabal file contains information that drives the compilation and building of
> Haskell packages. Usually the .cabal file lives at the root directory that
> contains the haskell source code corresponding to the package. Usually this file
> is named as `<project-name>.cabal`. It is a text-based, key-value format, that
> is divided into subsections called stanzas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .cabal file contains information that drives the compilation and building of
Haskell packages. The .cabal file lives at the root directory that
contains the haskell source code corresponding to the package. By convention this file
is named `<project-name>.cabal`. It is a text-based, key-value format, that
is divided into subsections called stanzas.
```

[test-suite](../leveling_up/02_first_cabal_test-suite.md),
[benchmark](src/leveling_up/03_first_cabal_benchmark.md). These components are
also called stanzas.

One of the purposes of Cabal is to make it easier to build a package with
different Haskell implementations. So it provides abstractions of features
present in different Haskell implementations and wherever possible it is best to
take advantage of these to increase portability. For example one of the pieces
of information an author can put in the package’s .cabal file is what language
extensions the code uses. This is preferable to specifying flags for a specific
compiler as it allows Cabal to pick the right flags for the Haskell
implementation that the user picks. It also allows Cabal to figure out if the
language extension is even supported by the Haskell implementation that the user
picks. Where compiler-specific options are needed, there is an “escape hatch”
available. The developer can specify implementation-specific options and more
generally there is a configuration mechanism to customise many aspects of how a
package is built depending on the Haskell implementation, the operating system,

> computer architecture and user-specified configuration flags.

Reviewer: Perhaps it is worth mentioning that these days, we have pretty much all converged on GHC as the standard haskell implementation.

Author: @JonathanLorimer Where will it be suitable to mention? 

**At the beginning like this:** 
One of the purposes of Cabal is to make it easier to build a package with different Haskell implementations. There are various [Haskell implementations](https://wiki.haskell.org/Implementations), but we have now pretty much all converged on [GHC](https://www.haskell.org/ghc/) as the standard Haskell implementation. So it provides ...

**Or end the end:**

... user-specified configuration flags. There are various [Haskell implementations](https://wiki.haskell.org/Implementations), but we have now pretty much all converged on [GHC](https://www.haskell.org/ghc/) as the standard Haskell implementation.

I'm leaning more towards the latter option.

Reviewer: Yeah, I agree that the end makes the most sense

Author: ok cool!

## The CABAL library

> Cabal stands for Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries.
> This is the library that provides functionality that allows the information in
> the .cabal files to be put to use. The Cabal library contains the
> implementations that allow for the parsing and operations based on the content
> of a .cabal file. Cabal the library, by convention, is written with
> Capitalization case. Cabal can take a haskell dependency graph (of external and
> internal modules) and use GHC to build it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cabal stands for Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries.
This is the library that provides functionality that allows the information in
the .cabal files to be put to use. The Cabal library contains the
code for parsing .cabal files and operations for building
haskell packages. Cabal the library, by convention, is written with
Capitalization case. Cabal can take a haskell dependency graph (of external and
internal modules) and use GHC to build it.
```

## The binary cabal-install (cli tool)

The cabal binary or more accurately `cabal-install` is the command-line tool
that provides a user interface for dealing with Haskell packages. cabal-install
makes use of Cabal the library to do its job.

cabal-install is a frontend to Cabal. It makes it possible to build Haskell
projects whose sets of dependencies might conflict with each other within the

> confines of a single system. A package's .cabal file provides a constraints on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
confines of a single system. A package's .cabal file provides a constraint on
```

# What do we mean when we say cabal?

Cabal is an umbrella term that can refer to either "cabal the spec" (.cabal
files), "cabal the library" (code that understands .cabal files), or "cabal the
tool" (the cabal-install package which provides the cabal executable).

## tl;dr

> 1. [cabal-install](#the-cabal-file) is the command line utility to help

Reviewer: Why does `cabal-install` link to `#the-cabal-file`?

Author: Oops, linked to the wrong para. I put it in the order the paragraphs were, and tl;dr list is in different order. That's why. I'll rearrange them, and link to proper sections.

   configure, compile and install Haskell libraries and programs.

> 2. [The Cabal build system](#the-cabal-library), a library that is used for

Reviewer: Should there be a comma at the end of the link here? There isn't on `cabal-install` and `.cabal file`

Author: "The cabal build system is a library that is used" would be better, yeah.

>    reation of packages and the building of their contents. This build system is

Reviewer: Missing a c on creation, and switch from passive to active voice.
```suggestion
   creating packages and building their contents. This build system is
```

>    used by cabal-install and other package manager, stack for example. For eg:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   used by cabal-install and other package managers, stack for example. For eg:
```

>    parsing .cabal files (among others).

Reviewer: Again, can we get rid of `For eg:` its a little too informal for a guide. If you are going to explain what some of libraries capabilities are you should list more than just parsing (I usually cite 3 examples as a rule of thumb).

> 3. [.cabal file](#the-binary-cabal-install-cli-tool) This is the format that

Reviewer: Seems like this is the wrong link as well.

Reviewer: Also I would say its "the file" not "the format" that specifies the content of a Haskell package. Perhaps you mean something like "It is a file with a custom format designed for specifying the content of Haskell packages"?

Author: Yes, it should be "the file".

   specifies the content of Haskell packages. A .cabal file specifies a Haskell
   package with via some top level metadata about the package and build specific
   information (exposed modules, external dependencies, language extensions,

>    compiler options) about the components that comprise the package.

Reviewer: A couple typos and some word repetition, perhaps something like this? 
```suggestion
   specifies the content of Haskell packages. The types of information that can be provided via the
   bespoke file format are: top level metadata about the package, and build specific
   information (exposed modules, external dependencies, language extensions,
   compiler options) about the components that comprise the package.
```

## The .cabal file

The .cabal file contains information that drives the compilation and building of
Haskell packages. Usually the .cabal file lives at the root directory that
contains the haskell source code corresponding to the package. Usually this file

> is named as `project-name.cabal`. It is a text-based, key-value format, that is

Reviewer: Perhaps add angle brackets to emphasize that `project-name` is just a place holder.
```suggestion
is named as `<project-name>.cabal`. It is a text-based, key-value format, that is
```

divided into subsections called stanzas. Each section consists of a number of
property descriptions.

The package properties describe the package as a whole, such as name, license,
author, dependenices, etc. It also contains optional information about optional
components such as
[library properties](../new_to_cabal/06_first_cabal_library.md),
[executables](../new_to_cabal/07_first_cabal_executable.md),
[test-suite](../leveling_up/02_first_cabal_test-suite.md),

> [benchmark](src/leveling_up/03_first_cabal_benchmark.md). These components are
> also called stanzas.

Reviewer: Maybe just remove the last sentence, it feels a bit redundant.
```suggestion
[benchmark](src/leveling_up/03_first_cabal_benchmark.md).
```

One of the purposes of Cabal is to make it easier to build a package with
different Haskell implementations. So it provides abstractions of features
present in different Haskell implementations and wherever possible it is best to
take advantage of these to increase portability. For example one of the pieces
of information an author can put in the package’s .cabal file is what language

> extensions the code uses. This is far preferable to specifying flags for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extensions the code uses. This is preferable to specifying flags for a
```

specific compiler as it allows Cabal to pick the right flags for the Haskell
implementation that the user picks. It also allows Cabal to figure out if the
language extension is even supported by the Haskell implementation that the user

> picks. Where compiler-specific options are needed however, there is an “escape

Reviewer: ```suggestion
picks. Where compiler-specific options are needed, there is an “escape
```

hatch” available. The developer can specify implementation-specific options and
more generally there is a configuration mechanism to customise many aspects of
how a package is built depending on the Haskell implementation, the Operating

> system, computer architecture and user-specified configuration flags.

Reviewer: Everything should be lower case
```suggestion
how a package is built depending on the Haskell implementation, the operating
system, computer architecture and user-specified configuration flags.
```

> 

Reviewer: This section is _really_ fantastic. Well written!

## The CABAL library

> CABAL stands for Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cabal stands for Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries.
```

This is the library that provides functionality that allows the information in
the .cabal files to be put to use. Without the Cabal library, the Cabal package

> format is just that, a text file. The Cabal library contains the implementations

Reviewer: I think this sentence is unnecessary.
```suggestion
the .cabal files to be put to use. The Cabal library contains the implementations
```

that allow for the parsing and operations based on the content of a .cabal file.

> Cabal the library by convention is written with Capitalization case. Cabal can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cabal the library, by convention, is written with Capitalization case. Cabal can
```

take a haskell dependency graph (of external and internal modules) and use GHC
to build it.

## The binary cabal-install (cli tool)

The cabal binary or more accurately `cabal-install` is the command-line tool
that provides a user interface for dealing with Haskell packages. cabal-install
makes use of Cabal the library to do its job.

cabal-install is a frontend to Cabal. It makes it possible to build Haskell
projects whose sets of dependencies might conflict with each other within the
confines of a single system. Packages provide a constraint on the version of

> various libraries (version range) that will work with their package. When

Reviewer: ```suggestion
confines of a single system. A package's .cabal file provides a constraints on the version of
various libraries (version bounds) that they expect. When
```

cabal-install is asked to build a project, by default it looks at the
dependencies specified in its .cabal file and uses a dependency solver to figure
out a set of packages and package versions that satisfy it. This set of packages

> is drawn from all package and all versions from Hackage as a whole. The chosen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is drawn from Hackage. The chosen
```

versions of the dependenices will be installed and indexed in a database in the

> cabal directory.

Reviewer: do you mean `~/.cabal` directory? I am pretty sure that's the correct one. It would be good to confirm this in the cabal docs either way.

# What do we mean when we say cabal?

> Cabal is an umbrella term that can refer to either "cabal the spec" (.cabal

Reviewer 2: "the package spec"? I wasn't sure if you mean "specification of the cabal software system" or "cabal format spec" or "cabal protocol spec".

files), "cabal the library" (code that understands .cabal files), or "cabal the
tool" (the cabal-install package which provides the cabal executable).

## tl;dr

1. [.cabal file](#the-cabal-file) This is the file that specifies the content of

>    Haskell packages. The types of information that can be provided via the

Reviewer 2: I'd cross out "that can be". There is not so much optionality here, no defaults, a lot of the info is mandatory.

   bespoke file format are: top level metadata about the package, and build
   specific information (exposed modules, external dependencies, language
   extensions, compiler options) about the components that comprise the package.

2. [The Cabal build system](#the-cabal-library) is a library that is used for
   creating packages and building their contents. This build system is used by
   cabal-install and other package managers, stack for example.

3. [cabal-install](#the-binary-cabal-install-cli-tool) is the command line

>    utility to help configure, compile and install Haskell libraries and

Reviewer 2: I'd change "to help configure" to "for configuring", or something similar, because cabal-install is not a helper that makes it easier. There are no ways to do that except via cabal-inistall.

   programs.

## The .cabal file

The .cabal file contains information that drives the compilation and building of

> Haskell packages. The .cabal file lives at the root directory that contains the

Reviewer 2: I'm not a native speaker, but I suspect "in root directory".

> haskell source code corresponding to the package. By convention this file is

Reviewer 2: I'd rephrase to "in root directory of the source tree of the package". Root directory does not contain code. It contains other directories that contain code and other directories, etc.

> haskell source code corresponding to the package. By convention this file is

Reviewer 2: I'm not a native speaker, so I'm not sure about 'convention'. This is mandatory, so surely not a social convention, but built into the format. Not sure how to better express that.

> named `<project-name>.cabal`. It is a text-based, key-value format, that is

Reviewer 2: "It is in a ,.. format". We are still talking about the file, not its format. So file is in format. Format is text-based.

divided into subsections called stanzas.

The package properties describe the package as a whole, such as name, license,
author, dependenices, etc. It also contains information about optional

> components such as [library](../new_to_cabal/06_first_cabal_library.md),

Reviewer 2: Either 'libraries' or reword, because a single library is mandatory, everything else is optional.

[executables](../new_to_cabal/07_first_cabal_executable.md),
[test-suite](../leveling_up/02_first_cabal_test-suite.md),

> [benchmark](src/leveling_up/03_first_cabal_benchmark.md). These components are

Reviewer 2: test-suites, benchmarks; they can be many, as well.

also called stanzas.

One of the purposes of Cabal is to make it easier to build a package with

> different Haskell implementations. So it provides abstractions of features

Reviewer 2: Given that currently GHC is virtually the only one, I'd clarify "(e.g., different versions of the GHC compiler or one of the past or future competitors)".  Because there is no present competitor, sadly. :)

present in different Haskell implementations and wherever possible it is best to

> take advantage of these to increase portability. For example one of the pieces

Reviewer 2: I'd be a little less proscriptive and condense to "present in different Haskell implementations that can be used to increase portability.".

of information an author can put in the package’s .cabal file is what language
extensions the code uses. This is preferable to specifying flags for a specific
compiler as it allows Cabal to pick the right flags for the Haskell
implementation that the user picks. It also allows Cabal to figure out if the
language extension is even supported by the Haskell implementation that the user
picks. Where compiler-specific options are needed, there is an “escape hatch”
available. The developer can specify implementation-specific options and more
generally there is a configuration mechanism to customise many aspects of how a
package is built depending on the Haskell implementation, the operating system,
computer architecture and user-specified configuration flags.

There are various
[Haskell implementations](https://wiki.haskell.org/Implementations), but we have
now pretty much all converged on [GHC](https://www.haskell.org/ghc/) as the
standard Haskell implementation.

> 

Reviewer 2: If we mention GHC above, as suggested, I'd remove this. Perhaps re-use the links, GHC for GHC, Implementations for "past and future competitors".

## The CABAL library

Cabal stands for Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries.
This is the library that provides functionality that allows the information in

> the .cabal files to be put to use. The Cabal library contains the code for

Reviewer 2: I bet you could condense this sentence to half the length. :)

parsing .cabal files and operations for building haskell packages. Cabal the

> library, by convention, is written with Capitalization case. Cabal can take a

Reviewer 2: I'm not a native speaker, so I'd need to google to understand what "Capitalization case" means.

haskell dependency graph (of external and internal modules) and use GHC to build

> it.

Reviewer 2: I'd say "Cabal generates a dependency graph (of external and internal packages and modules) and repeatedly calls GHC to build it."

> ## The binary cabal-install (cli tool)

Reviewer 2: This is hard, because the exe is not called `cabal-install` and we don't want to mislead the users. How about "The commandline tool (cabal-instal)"? I'm not happy with that either.

> The cabal binary or more accurately `cabal-install` is the command-line tool

Reviewer 2: I'd repeat the section title: "The commandline tool project called `cabal-install`, with the executable confusingly named `cabal`, provides user interface..."

that provides a user interface for dealing with Haskell packages. cabal-install
makes use of Cabal the library to do its job.

> cabal-install is a frontend to Cabal. It makes it possible to build Haskell

Reviewer 2: These two sentences are almost repeated.

projects whose sets of dependencies might conflict with each other within the

> confines of a single system. A package's .cabal file provides a constraint on

Reviewer 2: This is important point, but hard to get across. Perhaps "<something about cabal-install being powerful thanks to using Cabal library> It's perfectly comfortable building two Haskell projects whose sets of dependencies are conflicting and storing their artefacts to be concurrently employed by the user."

the version of various libraries (version bounds) that they expect. When
cabal-install is asked to build a project, by default it looks at the
dependencies specified in its .cabal file and uses a dependency solver to figure

> out a set of packages and package versions that satisfy it. This set of packages

Reviewer 2: I'd say "packages with their versions" to be able to later on omit "and package versions".

> is drawn from Hackage. The chosen versions of the dependenices will be installed

Reviewer 2: "Hackage (the central Haskell package repository) or another repository specified by the user"; BTW, typo: dependenices

and indexed in a database in the cabal directory (`~/.cabal`).

Conflicts between dependencies are avoided by indexing the installed packages
according to their version and other relevant configuration options. This allows

> different projects to retrieve the dependency versions they need.

Reviewer 2: I'd add "dependency versions and build flavours".

> stack is also a command-line tool that depends on the Cabal Library, and hence

Reviewer 2: Let's be high-minded and also compliment ourselves saying something like "stack is another mature command-line tool, with somewhat different goals and trade-offs, that depends...".

   bespoke file format are: top level metadata about the package, and build
   specific information (exposed modules, external dependencies, language
   extensions, compiler options) about the components that comprise the package.

2. [The Cabal build system](#the-cabal-library) is a library that is used for
   creating packages and building their contents. This build system is used by
   cabal-install and other package managers, stack for example.

3. [cabal-install](#the-binary-cabal-install-cli-tool) is the command line
   utility to help configure, compile and install Haskell libraries and
   programs.

## The .cabal file

The .cabal file contains information that drives the compilation and building of
Haskell packages. The .cabal file lives at the root directory that contains the
haskell source code corresponding to the package. By convention this file is
named `<project-name>.cabal`. It is a text-based, key-value format, that is
divided into subsections called stanzas.

The package properties describe the package as a whole, such as name, license,
author, dependenices, etc. It also contains optional information about optional
components such as

> [library properties](../new_to_cabal/06_first_cabal_library.md),

Reviewer 3: Nitpick: 
"about optional components such as library properties" - sounds weird. Is "library property" an optional component?
I'd change this to `[libraries]`. Also in the "optional information about optional components" I'd drop the first "optional".
Since the component is optional, it means it can be left out, so no need to mention the optionality twice.

Author: Yep, agree. I'll remove the first optional.
